# *Cleaning and Getting Data* course project

Data that was collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone within in an experiment is used to create a clean and summarized data set. 

### Contents

  - `CodeBook.md` - Describes the experiment data and the steps taken by the `run_analysis.R` script to summarize the data.
  - `run_analysis.R` - R script to merge, clean-up, transform, and summarize the experiment data.
  - `run_data_data.txt` - Output file generated by the `run_analysis.R` script.
  - `README.md` - This file.

### Analysis process

The analysis script, `run_analysis.R` reads in various experiment data files from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip and performs the following steps to create a summarized data file `run_analysis_data.txt`.

 1. The test datasets `X_test.txt, Y_test.txt, subject_test.txt` and the training datasets `X_train.txt, Y_train.txt, subject_train.txt` are read in and merged into one big data set named `data`.
 2. Based on the `features.txt` file, descriptive variable names are assigned to the columns.
 3. Variables that contain either the mean or the standard deviation measurement for each measurement are extracted from `data`
 4. Based on the `activity_labels.txt` file, the activity identifiers are replaced by labels.
 5. A second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject is created and written to a file `run_analysis_data.txt`.
 
Each step in `run_analysis.R` is commented. See the file to find more details.

### Getting started

  1. Read through the [CodeBook](CodeBook.md) and the [run_analysis.R](run_analysis.R) script to get a general understanding of this project, the steps taken in the analysis, and the output file.
  2. Make sure the [experiment data](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip) is downloaded and extracted to the folder `data\UCI HAR Dataset` within the project directory.
  3. Run the `run_analysis.R` script.